docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

This document outlines the environment variables available for configuring the `worker-comfyui`.

## General Configuration

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Default |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `REFRESH_WORKER`     | When `true`, the worker pod will stop after each completed job to ensure a clean state for the next job. See the [RunPod documentation](https://docs.runpod.io/docs/handler-additional-controls#refresh-worker) for details. | `false` |
| `SERVE_API_LOCALLY`  | When `true`, enables a local HTTP server simulating the RunPod environment for development and testing. See the [Development Guide](development.md#local-api) for more details.                                              | `false` |

## AWS S3 Upload Configuration

Configure these variables **only** if you want the worker to upload generated images directly to an AWS S3 bucket. If these are not set, images will be returned as base64-encoded strings in the API response.

- **Prerequisites:**
  - An AWS S3 bucket in your desired region.
  - An AWS IAM user with programmatic access (Access Key ID and Secret Access Key).
  - Permissions attached to the IAM user allowing `s3:PutObject` (and potentially `s3:PutObjectAcl` if you need specific ACLs) on the target bucket.

| Environment Variable       | Description                                                                                                                             | Example                                                    |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL`      | The full endpoint URL of your S3 bucket. **Must be set to enable S3 upload.**                                                           | `https://<your-bucket-name>.s3.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com` |
| `BUCKET_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | Your AWS access key ID associated with the IAM user that has write permissions to the bucket. Required if `BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL` is set. | `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`                                     |
| `BUCKET_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Your AWS secret access key associated with the IAM user. Required if `BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL` is set.                                      | `wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY`                 |

**Note:** Upload uses the `runpod` Python library helper `rp_upload.upload_image`, which handles creating a unique path within the bucket based on the `job_id`.

### Example S3 Response

If the S3 environment variables (`BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL`, `BUCKET_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `BUCKET_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`) are correctly configured, a successful job response will look similar to this:

```json
{
  "id": "sync-uuid-string",
  "status": "COMPLETED",
  "output": {
    "images": [
      {
        "filename": "ComfyUI_00001_.png",
        "type": "s3_url",
        "data": "https://your-bucket-name.s3.your-region.amazonaws.com/sync-uuid-string/ComfyUI_00001_.png"
      }
      // Additional images generated by the workflow would appear here
    ]
    // The "errors" key might be present here if non-fatal issues occurred
  },
  "delayTime": 123,
  "executionTime": 4567
}
```

The `data` field contains the presigned URL to the uploaded image file in your S3 bucket. The path usually includes the job ID.

Commit message:

feat: added COMFY_LOG_LEVEL to control the logs from ComfyUI

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

This document outlines the environment variables available for configuring the `worker-comfyui`.

## General Configuration

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Default |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `REFRESH_WORKER`     | When `true`, the worker pod will stop after each completed job to ensure a clean state for the next job. See the [RunPod documentation](https://docs.runpod.io/docs/handler-additional-controls#refresh-worker) for details. | `false` |
| `SERVE_API_LOCALLY`  | When `true`, enables a local HTTP server simulating the RunPod environment for development and testing. See the [Development Guide](development.md#local-api) for more details.                                              | `false` |

## Logging Configuration

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `COMFY_LOG_LEVEL`    | Controls ComfyUI's internal logging verbosity. Options: `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`. Use `DEBUG` for troubleshooting, `INFO` for production. | `DEBUG` |

## Debugging Configuration

| Environment Variable           | Description                                                                                                            | Default |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT_ATTEMPTS` | Number of websocket reconnection attempts when connection drops during job execution.                                  | `5`     |
| `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT_DELAY_S`  | Delay in seconds between websocket reconnection attempts.                                                              | `3`     |
| `WEBSOCKET_TRACE`              | Enable low-level websocket frame tracing for protocol debugging. Set to `true` only when diagnosing connection issues. | `false` |

> [!TIP] > **For troubleshooting:** Set `COMFY_LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG` to get detailed logs when ComfyUI crashes or behaves unexpectedly. This helps identify the exact point of failure in your workflows.

## AWS S3 Upload Configuration

Configure these variables **only** if you want the worker to upload generated images directly to an AWS S3 bucket. If these are not set, images will be returned as base64-encoded strings in the API response.

- **Prerequisites:**
  - An AWS S3 bucket in your desired region.
  - An AWS IAM user with programmatic access (Access Key ID and Secret Access Key).
  - Permissions attached to the IAM user allowing `s3:PutObject` (and potentially `s3:PutObjectAcl` if you need specific ACLs) on the target bucket.

| Environment Variable       | Description                                                                                                                             | Example                                                    |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL`      | The full endpoint URL of your S3 bucket. **Must be set to enable S3 upload.**                                                           | `https://<your-bucket-name>.s3.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com` |
| `BUCKET_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | Your AWS access key ID associated with the IAM user that has write permissions to the bucket. Required if `BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL` is set. | `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`                                     |
| `BUCKET_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Your AWS secret access key associated with the IAM user. Required if `BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL` is set.                                      | `wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY`                 |

**Note:** Upload uses the `runpod` Python library helper `rp_upload.upload_image`, which handles creating a unique path within the bucket based on the `job_id`.

### Example S3 Response

If the S3 environment variables (`BUCKET_ENDPOINT_URL`, `BUCKET_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `BUCKET_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`) are correctly configured, a successful job response will look similar to this:

```json
{
  "id": "sync-uuid-string",
  "status": "COMPLETED",
  "output": {
    "images": [
      {
        "filename": "ComfyUI_00001_.png",
        "type": "s3_url",
        "data": "https://your-bucket-name.s3.your-region.amazonaws.com/sync-uuid-string/ComfyUI_00001_.png"
      }
      // Additional images generated by the workflow would appear here
    ]
    // The "errors" key might be present here if non-fatal issues occurred
  },
  "delayTime": 123,
  "executionTime": 4567
}
```

The `data` field contains the presigned URL to the uploaded image file in your S3 bucket. The path usually includes the job ID.
