docs/conventions.md, before:

# Introduction

This project (`worker-comfyui`) provides a way to run [ComfyUI](https://github.com/comfyanonymous/ComfyUI) as a serverless API worker on the [RunPod](https://www.runpod.io/) platform. Its main purpose is to allow users to submit ComfyUI image generation workflows via a simple API call and receive the resulting images, either directly as base64-encoded strings or via an upload to an AWS S3 bucket.

It packages ComfyUI into Docker images, manages job handling via the `runpod` SDK, and facilitates configuration through environment variables.

# Project Conventions and Rules

This document outlines the key operational and structural conventions for the `worker-comfyui` project. While there are no strict code-style rules enforced by linters currently, following these conventions ensures consistency and smooth development/deployment.

## 1. Configuration

- **Environment Variables:** All external configurations (e.g., AWS S3 credentials, RunPod behavior modifications like `REFRESH_WORKER`, ComfyUI polling settings) **must** be managed via environment variables.
- Refer to the main `README.md` sections "Config" and "Upload image to AWS S3" for details on available variables.

## 2. Docker Usage

- **Container-Centric:** Development, testing, and deployment are heavily reliant on Docker.
- **Platform:** When building Docker images intended for RunPod, **always** use the `--platform linux/amd64` flag to ensure compatibility.
  ```bash
  # Example build command
  docker build --platform linux/amd64 -t my-image:tag .
  ```
- **Customization:** Follow the methods in the `README.md` for adding custom models/nodes (Network Volume or Dockerfile edits + snapshots).

## 3. API Interaction

- **Input Structure:** API calls to the `/run` or `/runsync` endpoints must adhere to the JSON structure specified in the `README.md` ("API specification"). The primary key is `input`, containing `workflow` (mandatory object) and `images` (optional array).
- **Image Encoding:** Input images provided in the `input.images` array must be base64 encoded strings.
- **Workflow Format:** The `input.workflow` object should contain the JSON exported from ComfyUI using the "Save (API Format)" option (requires enabling "Dev mode Options" in ComfyUI settings).

## 4. Testing

- **Unit Tests:** Automated tests are located in the `tests/` directory and should be run using `python -m unittest discover`. Add new tests for new functionality or bug fixes.
- **Local Environment:** Use `docker-compose up` for local end-to-end testing. This requires a correctly configured Docker environment with NVIDIA GPU support.

## 5. Dependencies

- **Python:** Manage Python dependencies using `pip` and the `requirements.txt` file. Keep this file up-to-date.

## 6. Code Style (General Guidance)

- While not enforced by tooling, aim for code clarity and consistency. Follow general Python best practices (e.g., PEP 8).
- Use meaningful variable and function names.
- Add comments where the logic is non-obvious.

Commit message:

feat: multiple output images; replace http polling with websocket to check when a workflow is done (#118)
* feat: move stuff around

* feat: removed polling; added websocket; allow multiple output images;

* ci: enable dry-run for semantic release; removed unused python setup

* ci: updated to python 3.11

* docs: updated conventions to reflect the current state of the repo

* fix: moved code back into stage 1

* chore: rename "tests_deactivated.json" to "tests.json"

* ci: temporarly allow "feat/refactor" to trigger semantic-release

* chore(release): 4.1.0

# [4.1.0](https://github.com/runpod-workers/worker-comfyui/compare/4.0.1...4.1.0) (2025-05-02)

### Bug Fixes

* moved code back into stage 1 ([d9ed145](https://github.com/runpod-workers/worker-comfyui/commit/d9ed14571308ad27481ae2dda4762d32b73b5d20))

### Features

* move stuff around ([2b2bc12](https://github.com/runpod-workers/worker-comfyui/commit/2b2bc1238dec5715092fa4b3e1418b8a443a409b))
* removed polling; added websocket; allow multiple output images; ([79a560f](https://github.com/runpod-workers/worker-comfyui/commit/79a560f46fbd303828175d138098faebd4baa97e))

* ci: properly enable dry-run

* feat: don't return "refresh_worker" in output; remove log spamming in check_server

* refactor: download the models separately

* feat: refactor the whole docs to make them more clear; replaced "snapshot" with a simplified, custom docker image

BREAKING CHANGE

* fix: use proper ending for "if"

BREAKING CHANGE: api output is not compatible anymore

* docs: added all possible comfyui folders; simplified guide of method 1

* fix(model): flux.1-schnell is gated

* feat: update to 0.3.30

* test: don't run "snapshot_restoration" tests

* chore: force local images

* docs: lowercase for code comments

* ci: run release for changes in "main"

* fix: workflow trigger

* ci: build only base for now

---------

Co-authored-by: semantic-release-bot <semantic-release-bot@martynus.net>

docs/conventions.md, after:

# Introduction

This project (`worker-comfyui`) provides a way to run [ComfyUI](https://github.com/comfyanonymous/ComfyUI) as a serverless API worker on the [RunPod](https://www.runpod.io/) platform. Its main purpose is to allow users to submit ComfyUI image generation workflows via a simple API call and receive the resulting images, either directly as base64-encoded strings or via an upload to an AWS S3 bucket.

It packages ComfyUI into Docker images, manages job handling via the `runpod` SDK, uses websockets for efficient communication with ComfyUI, and facilitates configuration through environment variables.

# Project Conventions and Rules

This document outlines the key operational and structural conventions for the `worker-comfyui` project. While there are no strict code-style rules enforced by linters currently, following these conventions ensures consistency and smooth development/deployment.

## 1. Configuration

- **Environment Variables:** All external configurations (e.g., AWS S3 credentials, RunPod behavior modifications like `REFRESH_WORKER`) **must** be managed via environment variables.
- Refer to the main `README.md` sections "Config" and "Upload image to AWS S3" for details on available variables.

## 2. Docker Usage

- **Container-Centric:** Development, testing, and deployment are heavily reliant on Docker.
- **Platform:** When building Docker images intended for RunPod, **always** use the `--platform linux/amd64` flag to ensure compatibility.
  ```bash
  # Example build command
  docker build --platform linux/amd64 -t my-image:tag .
  ```
- **Customization:** Follow the methods in the `README.md` for adding custom models/nodes (Network Volume or Dockerfile edits + snapshots).

## 3. API Interaction

- **Input Structure:** API calls to the `/run` or `/runsync` endpoints must adhere to the JSON structure specified in the `README.md` ("API specification"). The primary key is `input`, containing `workflow` (mandatory object) and `images` (optional array).
- **Image Encoding:** Input images provided in the `input.images` array must be base64 encoded strings (optionally including a `data:[<mediatype>];base64,` prefix).
- **Workflow Format:** The `input.workflow` object should contain the JSON exported from ComfyUI using the "Save (API Format)" option (requires enabling "Dev mode Options" in ComfyUI settings).
- **Output Structure:** Successful responses contain an `output.images` field, which is a **list of dictionaries**. Each dictionary includes `filename` (string), `type` (`"s3_url"` or `"base64"`), and `data` (string containing the URL or base64 data). Refer to the `README.md` API examples for the exact structure.
- **Internal Communication:** Job status monitoring uses the ComfyUI websocket API instead of HTTP polling for efficiency.

## 4. Testing

- **Unit Tests:** Automated tests are located in the `tests/` directory and should be run using `python -m unittest discover`. Add new tests for new functionality or bug fixes.
- **Local Environment:** Use `docker-compose up` for local end-to-end testing. This requires a correctly configured Docker environment with NVIDIA GPU support.

## 5. Dependencies

- **Python:** Manage Python dependencies using `pip` (or `uv`) and the `requirements.txt` file. Keep this file up-to-date.

## 6. Code Style (General Guidance)

- While not enforced by tooling, aim for code clarity and consistency. Follow general Python best practices (e.g., PEP 8).
- Use meaningful variable and function names.
- Add comments where the logic is non-obvious.
